---
title: "Yes Future. Experimental Urban Cryptology"
date: 2023-02-04T02:26:10+01:00
draft: false
author: "Lisa Bador"
tags: ["paris", "urban"]
issue: 1
prefix: "bador_cryptology_"
---


{{% section n="1" %}}

<!-- ## 1 Closed-source city -->

{{< h l="2" o="1" t="Closed-source city" >}}


In Paris, in the subway, feeling a new skin. In the RER too. This
station has been completely rebuilt since last time, but they haven\'t
managed to get rid of that sewage smell. The underground remains
disturbing, even with the new walls. Trapped under the earth's surface,
carried away by flows of people, running under artificial lights.

Old water drainage marks, pixelated skies of cheesy ads for Irish whisky
and one-eyed screens on the walls. Directions, so many directions.
Hypersignalized maze of stairs, tunnels and destinations. Interconnected
voids filled with words, clocks and signs. How many levels between the
surface of the city and the depths of its underground?

Thinking about Nexus. The echo of rumbling subways crosses the
galleries. Metallic highs of brakes freeze my eardrums. My train is at
the platform. I take a seat next to the window in the direction of
travel. The train takes off; feeling moved faster and faster. In the
glass, I see the transparent double of things. Inside, I hear a music I
never heard before; a mixture of future and imagination connected to the
train's speed. As I don't have anything to do, because I'm already moved
by another force, my mind gets all the energy it needs to fully drift
away.

Unexpected questions float around my lips and move within me like a
tender stupefaction. I get intoxicated with mixtures of past experiences
and imagination. My mind scatters, jumping back and forth from
metaphysical reflections to already over-stretched memories of you.
Moved by the subway with the feeling of something new.

The greenish glows of the tunnel lights follow one another in the
darkness. At every turn, behind every opening sprawls the underground.
The old-fashioned wheels keep squealing on the rails. Oozing sides of
breathing tunnels, distorted groans resonating in the distance, moist
and dusty heat. Thinking about the cables wired in these electric
cabins. Hidden logics, technological guts. Large brick ducts like inner
stone skins.

The urban network shapes my mind, but my mind is shaping it too. Urban
and neural networks both have visible and hidden sides. What if the city
was an encrypted text? On the wall over me, I see a map of the subway.
User friendly symbols; exoteric blueprint. How many concealed pathways?

{{% /section %}}

{{% section n="2" %}}

{{< h l="2" o="2" t="Underground cryptanalysis" >}}
<!-- ## 2 Underground cryptanalysis -->

It's really hot today. Is there something special I should be focusing
on? I remember your face illuminated by something that I could not grasp
and that fascinated me in the night. Now that we reached my station, I
need to throw myself through the doors. Once I'm walking on the
platform, the strange nets of my enthusiastic daydream catch me back.

Faces parading in the corridor, expanding telluric spaces, warm air
currents circulating in the reticular conduits. Perspectives deforming
the lines drawn by the white bricks of the walls. They say that when
humans spend time in the underground their imagination and sensations
increase. When everything resonates in the unfathomable depths of the
tunnels, feeling faith in a possible truth behind the entanglement of
simulacra.

Actually, to be objective is nothing more than to have an objective.
Objectivity is a reading grid of reality that aims at reaching a
specific goal. Therefore, the focus can be on some things more than on
others; some things appear, and some other disappear. The grid is the I,
the subject; it is oriented towards a specific action. But the grid is
also a cage; it leads to inner and outer blindnesses, reduces the field
of action to a single type of behavior. Somehow there's no outside of
the underground.

Waiting. White tiled walls covered with thin blue letters. A text
without spaces that only makes sense if you read it first from left to
right and then from top to bottom. Concorde. What is the Declaration of
the Rights of Man and Citizen doing in the underground? The white slick
glass of the letter tunnel reflects the rows of electric lights.
Vertically, I read: "IAM". One minute passes on the LED clock.

What if these hallways were grids too? They only lead to specific
places. Do they have an esoteric meaning? Focuses distort spaces;
subterranean psychonautics, neural speleology. Drawing undergrounds
behind a long sales receipt. The city network is a vast cultural grid
made out of many different sub-cultural and personal grids. Its hidden
sides contain the truth of its obvious sides. Where do all the plot
holes lead to? Urban cryptology; deciphering junkspaces. Paris teems
from within.

The train comes out of the tunnel and starts sliding over the city. On
the horizon, pieces of orange clouds are fading under the weight of the
night. La DÃ©fense, herd of metal rocks. The last lights of the sky draw
invisible columns of infinity. Feeling the pleasant pain of
unexplainable joys. The city glows under empty heights.

All the Wikipedia pages lead back to the word "philosophy". What if my
mind was also like this with you? No philosophy without love.

{{% /section %}}

{{% section %}}


<!-- ## 3 Neuro-capitalism -->
{{< h l="2" o="3" t="Neuro-capitalism" >}}



Waiting. Waiting. Waiting on the platform. Glossy walls and dirty
grounds. Mice lurking between the rails. Human warmth, fast food smell,
robotic voices coming out of the speakers. The cheap texture of
advertising posters drips everywhere. What about all the graphic
designers who conceived these images? Where are they? Who is in charge
of them?

Maniac reveries. Like cities, minds are filled with architectural a
prioris. Studying the neural effects of Parisian urbanism. Conservative
city plannings manifest philosophical and religious dogmas. Capitalism
as an automatic imaginary. The everyday does not exist, it is way more
an illusion produced by repetition. Habituation partly camouflages
psychic and concrete surroundings.

Shopping in unreal windowless stores. Surrounded by various flashy
clothes; amazed and almost overwhelmed by the amounts of choices and
possibilities. Underground words malls. Chemical odors of perfumes
giving me a headache. What would make sense for you?

Objects are words; tools are verbs. Gnostic browsings of capitalism.
Like texts, towns offer a priori navigation spaces. Occult urban
algorithms. The capital is a collective head. Esoteric neurologies.
Values are buried in cities and minds.

Graffitis dispersed in the murky depths. Vanishing lights, doors and
platforms. What kinds of minimalisms can perception reach in a space
saturated with a prioris? They say that staying in the underground
increases paranoia. How many hidden places? Public and private spaces.
Who has the biggest set of keys in town?

The city is a vast energy and information node. What makes it so tight?
Cultural quilting points. Cities imply, if not an inside and an outside,
at least a center and a periphery. Rings, with a quilting point of
energy and information in the center. What does the city feed on? Its
guts should provide evidences about its nutrition and digestion
processes. The underground is filled with connections, dreams and
waiting areas. It works like a phantasm machine. The subway materializes
the imaginative settings of basical city-dweller ravings. Thinking about
last time in the vandalized escalators.

Paris is growing because something from the outside is involved;
something from the outside is being transformed into something from the
inside. Cities rely on outsides, that facilitate both what cannot be
found and what cannot be staying in insides. They eat, digest and expel
again their outsides under other forms.

Inspiring and expiring elements; cars, trucks, trains, filled with
animals, people, commodities, traversing the limit from both ways.
Cities are what they eat: selected, well shaped and well associated
primary matters. By eating our surroundings, we create holes around us.
Cities have their own diet according to what is available to them.

Aspiration, mutation, expulsion. The circulation implied by cultural
quilting points is a process of not being closed. But it is also a
process of perpetual separation. Cultural quilting points act as the
nervous systems of their surroundings. They shape and are being shaped
by collective mindsets, according to the way they answer the question :
"What is the difference between the inside and the outside of the
city?".

Affinity by inversion or by reflection. A text is like a skin; authors
and readers only touch each other when they have common reading grids.
Dialogues only exist because language and culture are collective
systems.

Like a text, the city is born, lives and dies between the eyes of
authors and readers. The underground became the antechamber of truth.
Hermetic urbanism. Exploring the meanings of networks. Getting high on
possible futures.

I want to tell you these things, because I feel like you would
understand. What kinds of beauty could be discovered behind the gloomy
cloaks of subsurface ready-made capitalisms? Love builds graceful
objectivities.

{{% /section %}}
{{% section %}}

<!-- ## 4 Body archaeology -->
{{< h l="2" o="4" t="Body archaeology" >}}


So many things happening in the flesh. How many fluids and channels?
Stone expanses; townspeople's second skins. No outside with no inside
out. Running like water through arborescent stairways and corridors.
Lost in light shades imagining your sight. How many unknown
objectivities create a distance between us?

Knowing the way to new interesting places involves breaking the code of
closed-source outsides. Some places are not accessible, just because
there is no indication about them, and on the contrary, some other
places are excessively indicated.

Meditation is an architectural relationship to perception; it's goal is
to analyze available materials and to turn them more and more into a
temple.

Places to unlock inside; opening new windows and doors in the maze of
internal rooms. What looks like random vacuum is in fact a black curtain
behind which multiple dimensions are hidden; to access them, specific
maps and keys are needed.

As long as it cannot be opened, a door stays a wall. Vacuum, walls,
doors and windows. What do I want to be looking at? What kinds of places
do I want to be able to access?

Days accumulate and I keep dreaming about you; spending so much more
time thinking about you than actually being with you, but feeling like
this love is making me grow. It's almost like you're there, inside of
one of these internal rooms, or like you are one of these rooms or a
group of them. Somewhere, there is the space of my relation to you and
all it's implications.

Sensitivity cryptanalysis. How to access the most beautiful places?
Dermatological border policy. Which spaces are most often frequented and
sublimated? Social politics of personal urbanisms. Where are the
abandoned or unknown spaces in which conditioning grows invisibly?

In 1962, the Paris City Council decided to build a parking lot under the
Notre-Dame square. In order to unearth potential remains, preventive
excavations were carried out. These researches turned out to be very
fruitful. In the 1980s, the archaeological crypt of the Ile de la CitÃ©
was inaugurated.

A new intertemporal space made out of a mixture of different historical
layers. From the Gallo- Roman period: a section of the wall of the
ancient port of Lutetia, a Gallo-Roman public bathhouse, a part of the
surrounding wall of the beginning of the IVth century. From the Middle
Ages: the basement of the old chapel of the HÃ´tel-Dieu, the foundations
of the houses of the rue Neuve-Notre-

Dame. From the XVIIIth century: the foundations of the Hospice des
Enfants-TrouvÃ©s. From the XIXth century: the layout of the Haussmann
sewers.

In 2016, the urban architect Dominique Perle proposed to replace the
square of Notre-Dame by a giant glass slab in order to reveal the
presence of the crypt to all passers-by. However, the idea was not
retained.

Architectural palimpsests. How do we drain away all the experiences and
memories, all the sensations and feelings, why do we store some of them
and not others, and why do some of them sometimes get blocked? Personal
hypogeas. Memory archeologies.

The purpose of the first crypts or sacred caves was to hide martyrs'
tombs from the eyes of laymen.

Later on, chapels and large churches were built on top of them.

In what directions are the construction processes evolving? Is it going
more up or down, left or right? What kind of material is being used for
the construction? Is there a lot of movement? Like musical compositions,
personal life writings can be more static or more dynamic. Internal
architectural processes, crafting cyber-neurologies.

{{% /section %}}
{{% section %}}

{{< h l="2" o="5" t="Gnostic urbex" >}}

<!-- ## 5 Gnostic urbex -->

Down the stairs, down the escalators; deeper into the head's truth.
Unexplainable crypto-catabasis. Subways spreading like snakes, following
different paths, generating intertwining melodies in the myriad of
tunnels formed by the city's body. Dreaming urban biologies. Every
movement is almost perfectly orchestrated by the heartbeat of clocks.

Like machines, cities and life require inputs and outputs. To live is to
allow various forms of energy to travel through the body. Increasing
harmonies of unceasing multi-dimensional traffics. No life without
conductivity.

Raspail. Lonely descent into the dark bowels. Lightening narrow passages
with a small flashlight. A fragile luminous circle oscillating under the
blows of my steps, ausculting the contours of the subterranean. Truth is
bigger than orthodoxy. What can and what cannot be seen? Like the
subway, attention travels. Urbanism and meditation draw magical circles.

Walking, ducking, sneaking through the silent darkness of solitary
galleries, big empty rooms, crawling through cat flaps. Walking without
knowing where I'm going. Feets up to the ankles in water, evolving,
meditating within a huge stone body. Small waves and drops, echoing.
Feeling the desire to know and to prove myself that I want to know.
Becoming friends with concrete.

How many stories around the flesh? Upgrading maps. Anatomical systems
are myths that pass between subjects and their own bodies. Cybernetic
biologies. Thoughts in the foreground and thoughts in the background.
Divided and unified thinkings. What kind of feeling and what kind of
sensation, and how do they relate with each other?

Boulevard de Montrouge, Diagonale du nord, AllÃ©es de Paris, Carrefour
des morts. Crossroads of the Dead. Transcendental nihilism. The body
understands things that cannot be processed with the mind. Deep joy
loves the unknown.

At the end of the 18th century, as the city's graveyards were
overcrowded, people started to transfer dead corpses in these quarries.

Experimental cryptology is driven by the desire to unveil appearances.
Current impressions and knowledge are a place in which treasures of
future developments are buried. Like gnosis, cryptanalytical
explorations of present reading grids are triggered by a love for
philosophical maturation. Esoteric body scans and epistemological
humility lead to divine discoveries.

I realized I love you because you remind me of this. Even if the city is
covered with simulacra, it remains a manifestation of the unfakeable
truth of existence. Strange extasis. Humans are the main energy
circulating in the city's body. Deeper into the machine's truth. Urban
tantrism. Life's movement triumphs over all values.

Visited in an uncommon way, common places are extraordinary. Tasting
stones, soil, in the breath of the subterranean. The last foams of
remote Intelligent Dance Music strand on the walls. Hypnotic echoes of
outer musics in the inside. Feeling the vibrations of a distant rave.

The road down and the road up are just one. Modular meditation. The
spine is like a tower with a central spiral staircase that allows you to
go both up and down. This spiral staircase itself is infinitely extended
by other multi-directional and polymorphic spiral staircases which all
allow access to sub-dimensions of the main dimension.

The upward spiral and the downward spiral are the inverse of each other.
Kundalini phenomenology. The universe contains all the inverses. Playing
the body like a modular. What kinds of oscillators, filters, effects?
How many modules and cables?

Flowing like electricity through devices. Moving so fast that it can be
heard almost instantaneously through the speakers. Removing all the high
tones, all the middle tones, increasing the bass to the maximum. Hearing
with the body. Metaphysics deals with imaginary spatio-temporal
extensions of the 'here-and-now'.

Meditation generates alignment between all dimensions. When we lock
ourselves into certain dimensions...

Where are you sipping a cold decaf or in which tunnel is your silhouette
ondulating, with your deep eyes, so deep that one is almost afraid to
fall into them?

In french, "voice" and "way" sound the same. Subway entrances are also
called "subway mouths". Saying "I have to" is being stucked in somebody
else's speech.

The heart is the mirror's surface. It's state defines the quality of
reflexion. Practicing experimental praying. Moving freely, lightly from
one dimension to the other, listening to computer music.

Sticking to ground DIY navigational settings. Respect, even for the most
unexpected revelations. Learning the source codes of available
existential interfaces. Personal drives, uniting extremities. Exploring
and feeling the complete network. Dancing in the direction of open
source futures.

Poetic feedbacks. Grasping karmic mediations. The difference between the
inside and the outside is a matter of interface.

When there is more light inside than outside of the train, passengers
can see themselves in the glass. The inside can cover the outside and
vice versa. Behavior is driven by somapsychological as much as by
psychosomatic phenomena. Demons correspond to automatic mental writings.

Personal augmented realities. Collective dreams streams. The wheel is
the key to the movement of liquids. Techno-meditations. Rhyzomatic
short-circuits. In French, to say that something worked well, one
sometimes says that it worked "as if on wheels"; "comme sur des
roulettes".

Etymologically, the machine is an ingenious brainwave, an organic
software. I feel the pulpit of the veiled truths, the unknown breaths of
the depths and the skies invisible eyes. The city is a dreaming neural
network looking like your sunglasses. Even being nowhere near, I hear
the divine gears of the real.

{{% /section %}}
