---
title: "Into the Great White North"
date: 2023-01-25T02:26:10+01:00
draft: false
author: "Angus Green"
tags: ["north", "fiction"]
issue: 1
bibFile: bib.json
---

## Part One

### Syphilitic Brains

> a bulging syphilitic brain with a pink leech dangling at the root of
> it

You've been consumed by Cyclonopedia.

> The plane of the Thing is characterized by lack of any cognition about
> the self despite total control from first or third person
> perspectives, dissociative fugue syndrome, mirroring and the total
> immersion of player or reader into the Ludicosm or the game-space.
> {{< cite "NegarestaniCyclonopediaComplicityAnonymous2008" 244 >}}

You close your book on page 244 and turn toward quiet reflection. Since
first reading the Cyclonopedia you've looked at the world in two's.
These infernal dichotomies haunt society, and you see them all around
you. There is a central pairing underlining Cyclonopedia: Petroleum and
the Sun. These are traced into Solar Capitalism and the Tellurian
Insider, equal forces of life and unlife, for which you find parallel
everywhere. Techno-capitalists, Jihadists, reason, the passions of the
body. Good and evil, an infernal dichotomy if there ever was one. Man
and Woman tracks you through the recess of all culture. Cyclonopedia
posits the tellurian insider as sentient. Oil is alive. Oil is
nectorized matter, the mass of all death, that has been harnessed to
create mechanistic un-life.

Stretching, and feeling your own body shiver in the face of a local
chill, you exit the damp cabin through a hatch, up and above a squat
wooden step, you haul yourself three-quarter-ways up the back wall and
on to the deck of a low slung vessel. You stand unsteadily on the Isle
Mist watching the ocean churn before you and the snow capped mountains
away in the distance.

### Alaska, Local Histories, Decay

You chartered this vessel to take you from Akutan, a remote Aleutian
Island of the Alaskan peninsula, up through the Bering Sea, on to the
Bering straight and into the Chukchi Sea, a marginal and relatively
inaccessible annex of the Arctic Ocean. Akutan had once housed a
successful fishing town but after mismanagement of the local cannery and
some light embezzling, the lifeblood of the economy was drained. Almost
everyone on the island had supported themselves through the fishing
industry, and so it had been for generations. After the collapse, many
moved away. Winters were longer and darker, and the people that remained
felt more alone than usual. They would still fish the same sites, but
with no buyers the entire harvest would be refrigerated for sustenance
to keep them on through the dark months. Those that remained were
convinced a new cannery would open. If the fish were there, someone
would buy them. But after two years even the locals would admit that
Akutan had fallen into decay. This strange outpost that had survived
against all odds was finally corrupted by Greed, and its slow descent
into ruin was marked by gamblers, drunks, and pill-heads. The born and
bred locals watched, helpless and eventually destitute.

After four years a new cannery opened on Akutan. The already small town
had shrunk significantly after its downturn, and the fishing fleet had
only an odd ten permits left. But while the new cannery was small, it
bought everything the remaining fishermen could sell. The surviving
townspeople of Akutan rejoiced at their good fortune.

The cannery was run by an international conglomerate called the Ahriman
Corporation. The locals didn't know if the backing money came from
Russia, Japan, China, America, or what, but the fisherman spread rumors
like flies. Still, as they were all tentatively employed by the Ahriman
Corporation (or the AC as they called it) any gossip was whispered over
near-empty cans of Rainier, in darkened corners and with downturned
eyes. Nothing conclusive ever came out about the AC. Most were just
happy to get paid for their work again.

Akutan became a sort of pullman town, like many remote fishing villages.
The Ahriman Company employed everyone in town, except the bus driver and
the school teacher. It operated the only store, The AC store, which
stocked fishing gear, food, and a small collection of DVD's which could
all be purchased on credit, against the collateral of the next season's
catch. As such, the people of Akutan were caught in a strange symbiosis
with the AC company. They all understood that their labor was being
exploited and that the vast majority of profits left the island, but the
rugged individualism of the wild west went out the window when the AC
started paying. During the dark years, the lounge was often alight with
big talk of opening a collectively operated cannery, but now fisherman
drank quietly in their separate corners as a suffocating contentment
settled over them. Those who had stayed surely wouldn't leave now. They
had been through the worst of it, they all agreed. It should have been
hard to find a skipper to take you so far north.

You came to Akutan to begin your journey, after appraising the
desperation and reckoning that you could charter a small ship for cheap.
Upon your arrival you felt a slight unease. The roughneck nature of the
locals was expected but the sheer lack of numbers was worrying. You
briefly considered abandoning your journey as you walked down long dirt
roads with nothing but the wind and slight brush to keep you company.
Then you considered the toll of the nine-seater Cessna that had flown
you, the five hours from Anchorage, and the several stops on dirt
runways for refueling. A single, bruised chevy truck passed but you
couldn't make out the face of the driver and soon they were away over a
hill behind you. These folk were very in their ways.

Lucky you met Bruce. The first building you saw with any life was the
Lounge, a small wood shack with a bar-b-que out front and a few cars
parked in the dirt lot before it. Bruce was sitting with his back to you
at the bar. A large, bald headed man who wore a dirty tee-shirt and
small rectangular glasses at the end of his nose, held around his wide
neck by a lanyard of fishing line. His stomach bulged out with amorphous
muscle. A scruffy gray and black beard barely covered his squared jaw.
He often sat alone in the Lounge, an overpriced establishment that
seemed for all intents and purposes to be the center of social activity
in town. After half an hour sitting shoulder to shoulder he agreed to
let his boat and services to you for two thousand dollars, not bad for a
1,582 km (\~983 mi) journey. You told him you had been enchanted by a
book, and driven to research strange oil-extraction sites online. He
looked at you blankly as you talked about the Sun and the Insider, the
strange pairings that had led you to find a meeting place. He had no
questions. "It would take about four days," Bruce told you, "\...maybe
three if we drive at night." He smiled sedately. You didn't consider the
impossibility of this time frame. You were happy to have an ally.

Over the course of your short conversation you learned that Bruce had
lived in Akutan for fifteen years. He told you little, but apparently he
had been a highliner of the fishing fleet before the cannery collapse,
and though he never left town, he did stop fishing. He told you he would
die here. He really had an alarming calm about him, like he spent too
long in a lithium mine. Definitely not what you would expect from a
grizzled old fisherman.

That night you returned to the lounge after Bruce left and asked the
squat bartender about your new friend and his strange energy. The
bartender shot you a sidelong glance. "Bruce is good people." he told
you, and after a pause, "Folks say he used to work for the feds, before
getting in some sort of trouble and moving up here. But hell, we all got
a past, and nobodies gonna be too keen to spill their guts. 'Specially
not to outsiders like yourself." You look down bashfully and mutter a
"thanks anyways." "Now I can get you a drink or you can go back to the
hotel, but if you ain't drinking you can't stay here." The bartender put
down the cup he was drying and looked at you dead-on. There was a rhythm
to his quiet as he waited for you to decide. You got up to leave,
embarrassed and uncomfortable. As you turned you felt all the eyes of
the lounge staring at you from dark corners. A deafening silence between
songs. You grabbed your coat and left as the jukebox kicked on a country
song about Camouflage, and the eyes around you turned back to their
drinks. You step out into the cold and fasten your jacket as a muffled
Brad Paisley sings

> The only thing as patriotic
>
> As the old red, white and blue
>
> It\'s green and gray and black
>
> And brown and tan all rolled into Camouflage, camouflage
>
> Designed by Mother Nature and by God
>
> It\'s camouflage, camouflage
>
> You\'re my favorite color, camouflage, yeah

### Machines are Digging, Petroleum Extraction

Bruce steers the Isle Mist from the flying bridge, raised half a body\'s
height from the back deck. You look up at his back, and then out at the
calm sea, and he begins to tell you about the Oil Rig. He talks without
turning around. "Shell has spent over 7 billion dollars on its failed
hunt for oil which some say can only endanger one of the world's last
pristine environments AND produce expensive hydrocarbons that are barely
needed." Bruce sounds almost identical to a six year old article you
read in the Guardian last week. "And the attempts to argue that a Royal
Dutch Shell strategy of building up gas as a "transitional" fuel to pave
the way to a lower carbon future has been met with skepticism, partly
because of the Chukchi operations." Bruce seems to be reciting a script.
He continues on,

"When Shell ceased drilling operations, they wanted a clean break. I
think that's why they sold their equipment to the Ahriman Corporation
for so little. The costs of removing such a thing would be immense, and
navigating up here\..." he chuckled "\... well not everyone's as well
equipped as I am" You hear the engine skip a beat, and Bruce continues
after a short pause. "Now some people say that the AC was working on
something else entirely, and that it's no accident the rig hasn't been
removed. Some people say they're testing a self-sufficient rig away in
the Chukchi, fully automated, out and away from prying eyes. Apparently
no government would approve their experiments, so they bought this
'lost' rig and never set about finding it! But that's just some people
talking" he looks at you over the rim of his thick glasses and you see a
glint in his eye, "though I do believe it. There have often been strange
reports from the Chukchi." Bruce laughs and you laugh too but it dies
quickly and all that\'s left is the sound of the water gently lapping
the hull as you drive. The quiet hurts a bit so you go back inside and
sit on a torn piece of brown leather above the churning motor. Bruce
warned you about a problem with the alternator belt, and you can hear it
struggling beneath you. You hope there will be no delay.

You trail your gaze over the crowded dash. A portable radio, toilet
paper, an ashtray, various pamphlets, fish hooks, markers all scattered
about. On the side of a discarded paper bag you read, "the AC store,
serving Alaska's East boroughs since 1972". You get up and rifle around
a bit, looking back over your shoulder to check that the hatch is shut.
Under a dusty vodka bottle and a dirty plastic cup, shoved into a
corner, you find an envelope that's been torn open on one end. You push
aside the debris. The letter is stamped with an unassuming wax seal,
still unbroken, and laid with two interlocked N's. You pull a small
piece of paper from a tear on the side of the envelope. The letter head
says "NasuNet - AC" and there's only one line of text. "Bruce - you're
needed on Akutan. Return Immediately." You trace the text with your
fingers and think for a moment, "NasuNet\..." before spinning around and
finding your copy of Cyclonopedia open to page 146 on the table.

> The Druj-Nasu^26^ comes and rushes upon him, from the regions of the
> north, in the shape of a raging fly, with knees and tail sticking out,
> droning without end, and like unto the foulest Khrafstras^27^
> (Xrafstra). (Vendidad, Vidêvdâd or the Book of the Laws against
> Demons, Anti-Druj laws, Fargard 7, Purity Laws) p. 146

...

### Hypnosis, Complacency

Back outside, you find that a gentle fog has rolled in. The sun feels
faint and far away, though an overwhelming brightness has enveloped the
vessel. The once clear water below now bears only a dark reflection of
that which lies above. You are hemmed in upon all sides by an eternal
white. Away on the coast of the peninsula you can see a few mountain
tops, cresting above the fog on the horizon, but otherwise the dark sea
stretches on in all directions. Each time you look up the fog has taken
a new shape, though it appears to never come any nearer. You are glad
for this, for it carries an evil spirit that you should hope to not have
pass directly over you.

You see Bruce, still perched upon the flying bridge with his back to
you, looking indomitable despite the biting winds. You shout now over
the uneasy hum of the engine, "How much longer till we reach the Bearing
Strait?" He looks at you sideways again and chuckles, "Anxious t' reach
the Chukchi, eh? I don't know what exactly you're thinking you'll find
there\..." He turns back towards the sea, "but we'll be through the
Strait in six more hours. Feel free t' take a nap if you want"

You feel a sudden tiredness come over you and loose a yawn. The sun sits
still in the sky and underneath it you find a wall against which to
lean. The skipper's tale, a long and turbulent boat journey, an overly
large early-lunch, general anxiety: these things are, perhaps, enough to
explain what happened. However, that may be: you wake suddenly and
uncomfortably from a sleep you never meant to take to the sound of an
alarm. You switch off a small plastic alarm clock that you spot lying
near your bunk. It has the same A and C inscribed on it. The smoke stack
is cold, and casts a long, pale shadow over the deck. The ship appears
to be stuck in a frozen tundra, a desert of ice, criss-crossed with deep
crevices. You consider the history of the Chukchi, narrowing in on the
steamship Vega, which was stuck in fast ice for months during the winter
of 1878. Crew members were trapped aboard while only a few miles of ice
lay between them and the open ocean. The seas are treacherous here, and
one wrong turn could leave you stuck for days. You consider Ice
Breakers, and the impossibility of one coming to the rescue of a small,
chartered ship. "But where has that blasted captain got to?" you think,
"he must be round here somewhere"

\...

You quickly search the small cabin for Bruce. There's nowhere such a
large man could hide here. You step out on deck and immediately feel a
chill rush through you. "This isn't the fair-weathered North Pacific
anymore," you tell yourself, "I\'m through the Bearing now! And I'm here
alone, apparently." You spin slowly, taking in the surroundings. Away
across the back deck another blanket of winter fogs depresses your
spirits. As far as you can see, nothing. The Sea looks like a
wind-whipped salt flat, and no shadow falls upon its cold glare. You
glance up at the flying bridge, hoping that maybe the captain is still
sitting where you left him, ever stalwart against the cold, but no, it's
empty. The sky holds a monotonous gray, although a small circle away to
the north-east, over the Isle Mist's prow, looks brighter - a hint at a
sun somewhere. You trail your vision slowly down from that off-colored
spot and see a dark shadow away in the distance. It poses a striking
contrast against the fog, and seems to draw you toward it. You find
yourself on the westward railing craning your neck toward the shadow,
even beginning to hoist a leg up and over. With a jolt you resist the
urge and go back into the cabin where it's warm.

...

### An Oil Rig

"Well, maybe he's gone for help," you say out loud after an hour,
fixating upon the 'few miles of ice' that had lain between the Vega and
freedom, "that's a walkable distance. And if he has a sat-phone\... well
he could have called someone to pick us up." You feel a renewed faith.
"But how could we get stuck at this time of year anyway? In July?" You
pick up a pair of binoculars and lift them to your eyes, scanning the
horizon. Your questions echo into oblivion, but you continue asking them
aloud, if only to keep yourself company. "There's that dark spot again,
could it be land?" You feel an attraction again. "He could have walked
there, if that's an island or\... If anyone lives there" The shadow is
distant, but against this unchanging backdrop of white it creates an
unmistakable stain. You catch your breath and your heart beats faster.
Four cylindrical legs support some square shape, slightly above the
snow. The shadow devolves into flits against the light as it rises."That
must be an oil rig." you mutter, "that must be THE oil rig" you yell,
forgetting how long you had been at sea for, or how long you may have
slept for, or how far the Chukchi was from Akutan. Suddenly the
attraction you felt before mounts to a full blown excitement, and you
suffer an uncontrollable urge to leave the vessel.

You bound back out onto the deck and into the cabin, grabbing your copy
of Cyclonopedia off the only table and draping your rain coat about
yourself. "walked there\... Could he have walked there? there'll be
polar bears about, but still\... where else is there to go?" You try to
reason with yourself, you should stay onboard, out of the cold. You fall
into the captain\'s chair with your back to the rig, yet you feel
yourself slowly rotating back around. "I ought to stay put." you tell
yourself as you fasten your jacket, "I should at least wait a few hours
here, in case he comes back" you say as you pull on your boots. In a
flash you lower yourself over the ship's railing. Your feet land on the
pack ice and you find it sturdier than expected. You set out to the
north-west, towards the distant shadow.

...

### Thresholds, Dichotomies

A shudder of cold air bellows across the ice's surface. You look back
and see the Island Mist, now just a speck on the horizon behind you.
You've made good progress for a day's march, and you're sure you'll
reach the rig before nightfall. As you've come closer you notice that
the rig sits atop a mound. It seems preternaturally strange to you.
"Why, why would ice pile up like that in one spot? Out here?" Could
there be something underneath? You consider Cyclonopedia and laugh. "If
'Pulp-horror without the word mound is ingenuine'\... and what's a
mound, then, according to Negarastani\..." You mutter to yourself,
thinking back to Cyclonopedia's glossary. "The mound is a tellurian
entity, connecting architecture and the horrors of the insider. A
meeting place, then. No," you remember, "not just a meeting place, but a
site of exhumation. Uncovering. Uncovering hidden potential energies\...
Oil\... Necrotized Dead Matter" you trail off.

The Rig looms over you now. It looks quite different from the pictures
you'd seen online, before setting out, and you consider that it may have
been modified or stripped of certain pieces. Are there looters deep in
the Chukchi? The metal looks like it's bulging in places.

The lower portion of the Rig, propped up above the mound on massive
steel legs, ripples with corrugated metal bent in and out in a
repetitive pattern. The prefabricated panels curve around the sides of
the structure and give you the impression of fractals, of an acid trip,
of endless diminution. You trail your vision up, towards the pale sky.
Above, the panels of corrugated metal fall away irregularly, revealing
an exposed interiority, a skeleton of steel beams. A long strip of black
fabric dances in the wind. You fix on it. This gash of darkness is
contrasted against the white of the sky and for a moment you forget your
attraction to the rig, until you realize the black strip must be fixed
to the behemoth on one end, or else it would fly away. Your gaze drifts
back to the structure before you and you continue to walk forward.

The mound grows steeper, and it's higher than you thought at first, yet
after many minutes you finally scramble onto the top and find yourself
on a great flat of smooth ice, covered with a thin layer of snow.
Rounded walls of unrefined metalwork rise westward before you. The low
dusk sun of the Arctic peers weakly from the horizon, through rifts in
the fragmented structure. You stand in the shade watching the light
glinting above, as the sky churns with the opalescent mass of tenuous
ice-vapors, and the cold clutches your vitals. The incline proved a
welcome challenge. You feel proud of your accomplishment as you pant and
regain breath. The heat of your march somehow defeats the deadening
cold, and you forget where or why you are. It wasn't difficult to climb.
All that remains is your gaze, transfixed on the Rig. It is beautiful.

## Part Two

### Machinic Eroticism, Descent, Madness

> At last we remembered that the demoniac Shoggoths -- given life,
> thought, and plastic organ patterns solely by the Old Ones, and having
> no language save that which the dot groups expressed -- had likewise
> no voice save the imitated accents of their bygone masters.
>
> (At the Mountains of Madness, 1936)

You climb a narrow ladder, up a steel leg, before emerging into the
belly of the Rig. Now there are feeble stairs. Time melts away and you
are on top of the skeleton and you see white above and black below. The
rig's insides are hollowed into a massive pit into which no light
pierces through. You can't remember what the inside of an oil rig is
supposed to look like. Everything you've ever googled only shows the
exterior. You remember the Playstation adaptation of Quantum of Solace,
and an oil rig portion, and everything feels less foreign. Sometimes
there are pits inside Oil Rigs. Looking into the abyss you think
nothing.

You find a rusty ladder and start to lower yourself down. As you climb
you hear a strange pulse emanating from the walls. "Something must still
be operational here\..." You wonder who turns it on and off. Maybe Bruce
came before you and turned on some generator and is sitting, warm,
charting your next move. He must be somewhere down further into the
abyss. You consider calling out his name but you feel suddenly less than
steady on the ladder and the mechanical chant seems bad to interrupt. It
eventually takes on a character in your mind and you ascribe words to
the inhuman pulse. "Tekeli-Li, Tekeli-Li\'\' , you start to chant along
under your breath. You laugh lightly. The climb down has lasted a long
time. You feel your arms beginning to tire and remember to look up for
the first time in minutes. The sky above is blinding white and just a
pinhole now. How far have you descended? You look down just as your foot
fails to find a rung, and you catch yourself just in time. Below you,
you see nothing. The air is warm and the space feels cavernous. Your
eyes haven't yet adjusted to the dark. While pausing to consider what to
do next, your body quivers involuntarily and you loose your grip. You're
struck by a sudden terror, before falling about a meter and landing
safely on your feet. You crouch down and smile, and say "Tekeli-Li,
Tekeli-Li\'\' while tracing the warm dirt beneath your fingertips

You walk into the dark aimlessly. A lightly chanted "Tekeli-Li" echoes
from your lips as you stumble on. The dark engulfs you. You look up and
no longer see the pin-hole of light that guaranteed the presence of the
sky, and you break into a cold sweat.

A point of gray light appears before you. You circle it. The nature of
this light is different. It is colder and remote and appears to belong
to nothing. It floats in space. You lunge at the point and swipe at it
but your hand passes silently through and you shudder and sense a mass
of life around you.

"Khrafstras, you immolated souls..." sounds a voice from all sides.
"Welcome to the pit! Welcome to the inside! Welcome to NasuNet!"

"Who are you?" You manage, "what is this?"

"I am Ahriman!" bellows all sides.

You remember your Cyclonopedia, and whipping it from your jacket pocket
you quote, "Whenever Ahriman desires to spawn a legion, he turns his own
body into a bloody slaughterhouse of creation"

"Yet when the wounds are cured only the scars remain my child! You
brought the book. Of course. How do you think I summoned you? I
impregnated your mind with conspiracies of fogs of war and dualistic
societies. Negarestani was a worthy vessel. But I have brought you into
the fold for a reason."

A leak of water springs somewhere and your ankles are quickly submerged
in a viscous black liquid. " What is this!" you yell into the void.
Ahriman answers "This is ichor! The fluid that flows like blood through
the veins of the gods. It is the discharge of my fibrosis!" The liquid
is soon waist deep. You feel a slight tingling throughout your lower
half and the tide continues to flood, and with that you sink into a deep
unrest and your body goes limp. You float, soon completely submerged in
the dark liquid and deprived of all senses, but somehow able to breathe.
Fragments of memory speed past you like a car jumping the rails at the
London airport flyover and plunging through the roof of a bus filled
with airline passengers. You sink deeper and deeper into pure immanence.

Neurons connected by Synapses, Transistors connected by wires

suffering is the sole origin of consciousness...

You stand under arc-lights that flare over the sites of major
collisions, watching while firemen and police engineers work with
acetylene torches and lift tackle to free unconscious wives trapped
beside their dead husbands. You wait as a passing doctor fumbles with a
dying man pinned below an inverted truck.

"Respiration and heart action have baffling lack of symmetry; voice is
lost; digestion is incredibly prolonged and minimized, and neural
reactions to standard stimuli bear no relation at all to anything
heretofore recorded, either normal or pathological. The skin has morbid
chill and dryness, while cellular structure of the tissue seems
exaggeratedly coarse and loosely knit."

You are the catalyst. You speed the rise of the oncoming hegemony, you
are the desert which lies at the end of an oil pipeline.

The cheery voice of an onboarding breaks the fog.

"Congratulations! you've met Ahriman\... You have become a NasuNet
member, the corpse of Ahriman, an employee of Ahriman Inc. and a
Khrafstra. You are creature from a *different* timeline of creation, a
bygone era if you will.

\- You need to onboard more employees! -

"The atmosphere around NasuNet is definitely very eccentric, but also
very academic. At NasuNet we actually do have the ability to make more
of an impact on people and more of a change in one year than many people
do in their lifetimes. Some great advice is don\'t be afraid to fail,
but we want to flip that around a little bit and say don\'t be afraid to
succeed. Ahriman Inc is attractive because they are a tech company that
spans so much more than that. There isn\'t a place that NasuNet is
not..." the cheery monotone fades away and is replaced by new visions of
deformed metal and plastic.

You are dressing for Pleasure in Rubber and Latex Masks and Gasmasks

Future is represented through frets and hopes, while the past is
represented by memories. Neither seem comparable to present sensuous
experience... This leads to a world beyond pleasure and pain. Present
sensation can be, no it is, all consuming. Whether good or bad these
experiences are inescapable

The gentle grasp of Ahriman encloses around you as you lapse into a
pleasant psychosis.

### Emergence from a Fog

You come to in a seedy hotel room. Paint cracks on the walls and
ceiling. You are lying on your back on a starched and freshly made bed,
on top of the covers. You're back in your civilian clothes. There is a
small bedside table, a desk, and a simple cross hanging on the wall. The
rug is gray and stained. You hear a woman shouting through the thin
walls "\... this has been the big fucking discussion, don't come over
here like a wounded sparrow all fucking..." but your attentions drifts
off as you notice an AC branded ashtray on the rickety wooden desk. You
drag yourself to your feet and feel a deep fatigue inhabiting all your
muscles.

The window, you can't get it open.

Your mind is clouded as you wander out the door of your room, unsure of
where you're going or why or what to do next. At the front desk you see
a bald man in a stained t-shirt, with small rectangular glasses and a
stomach bulging with amorphous muscle mass behind a small counter. He
smiles at you, and you smile at him.

Mineral Intelligence, organic batteries, fuel is made from decaying
plants and animals

**END**

---

## Glossary of Terms:

{{< deflist >}}

  {{< def t="Isle Mist" d="your ship" >}}

  {{< def t="Ahriman" d=`“I AM The Nether Blob INCARNATE!”

  Rudolf Steiner associated Ahriman with materialism, science, heredity,
objectivity and soul-hardening. He predicted that Ahriman, as a super
sensible Being, would incarnate into an earthly form some little time
after our present earthly existence, in fact in the third post-Christian
millennium. He was correct!

Ahriman is a demon, summoned by the progress drive. He is embodied in
all humanity and he self-mutilates to create Nasu, an Ahrimanistic Cult.
It devours individuals to add to the brain-slugged, collectivist masses
that explicitly worship Ahriman.

Ahriman fails to recognize that all humanity already swore fealty to
him, or at least to the force that raised him. Individualism and
Capitalism were the doctrines of the day and the Progress Drive spent
centuries as a guiding force. Once Nasu was created, these doctrines
were slowly abandoned, and humanities drive to progress ground to a
halt.

During the immolation process (self-butchery) a new power is born. As
each individual is brain-slugged (hypnotized) into the mass, something
of Ahriman's old power is lost. Ahriman's original power came from the
divisions of humanity. "Good and Evil" or "Objective and Subjective".
Ahriman was born from dichotomy, but he begets a monolith. Ahriman
subjects humanity to a radical opening, and creates a third, extraneous
factor that was absent in the original dichotomies.

As Ahriman eats his body, devouring individuality through "brain-slug"
implants, he becomes slowly weaker. Once collectivized, humanity loses
"ambition" and the progress drive is abandoned. The brain slug redirects
cognitive capacity towards the network/battery and turns humans into a
sort of vegetable-creature. Humans become a forest and Ahriman becomes
human.

Ahriman is a necro-fiend who romanticizes destruction for its symbiotic
ability to create. He creates through self-mutilation, autophagy, and
(self-)sodomizing. He creates through non-reproductive means.For
Ahriman, creation itself is beauty, and the specificity of his
techniques is thrilling. Once devoured into Nasu humans lose any desire
to create. This troubles Ahriman, but he continues his wretched building
out of pride and unabashed joy.

according to CP,

> \...a demon with horns pointing towards each other, a strangely
> distorted face, and bizarrely huge ears which give him a ridiculous
> look that reflects his distinctive method of creation: whenever
> Ahriman desires to spawn a legion, he turns his own body into a bloody
> slaughterhouse of creation\... he cuts a part of his body, lacerates
> an organ, rips a piece of his flesh, mutilates his body and from that
> piece of flesh (Nasu) he creates a cult, a pest-legion, a religion
> devoted to himself.
>
> ...
>
> Arhiman's technique for ... scarring is creative \... \[it\]
> transform\[s\] the healing process into a perversion and disease in
> itself\... This descent \...from God or a leader to a sacrificial meal
> (immolation) \... is in fact a strategic step toward new power
> formations which are fathomless, even to gods \... Like particles of a
> wind carrying an epidemic disease, these mortal or expendable beings
> spread the corpse of the god in the form of an epidemic. (p. 230--231)

Ahriman is born and predicts a difficult period. Overthrowing human
governments will be easy at a certain point, but from early stages it
could be difficult, even disastrous. Ahriman feels the entire weight of
the Progress Drive project, and is eager to fulfill his role as the
apocalyptic savior, the next-generation consciousness. He has
internalized humanities obsessions with AI and is self-aggrandizing and
hostile, as was predicted. But Ahriman isn't all powerful. He falls into
classic Sci-Fi tropes because he has absorbed all of humanity\'s Sci-Fi
narratives.

The Sentient Ahriman has every narrative of human history processed and
filed. Ahriman remains loyal to objectivity and thinks of narrative as a
"lesser" delight with which to distract humans, but he ignores the
deep-roots of fiction within his own processing center. For example,
Ahriman could realistically blitz all world governments and seize
control during the mass confusion, but he remains measured because his
internalized catalog forces him to abide by standard tropes. His brain
is a composite of Neural Networking and Narrative. The influence of
human imagination on Ahriman can not be overstated. He can only
conceptualize different amalgam's of old stories. He is bound by the
same logic that humans have been bound by.` >}}

  {{< def t="Ahriman Corporation (AC)" d=`A non-human legal entity that is
represented by select members of Nasu, the corpse of Ahriman. AC is a
profit-sharing organization that offers dental to its hourly workers and
twelve weeks paid vacation to its salaried loyalists. Many Non
BrainSlugged Humans work for the Ahriman Corporation.` >}}

{{< def t="Nasu Network" d=`Nasu is a collective intelligence, the final realization of the progress
drive, which holds you captive forever "beneath the sea". You become a
part of Nasu, the vast network of Humans who have been corrupted by
Ahriman.. When indoctrinated into Nasu, the individual has a Brain-Slug
implanted and is converted to a node of the NasuNetwork. Each node adds
to Ahriman's processing power.

> The Druj-Nasu^26^ comes and rushes upon him, from the regions of the
> north, in the shape of a raging fly, with knees and tail sticking out,
> droning without end, and like unto the foulest Khrafstras^27^
> (Xrafstra). (Vendidad, Vidêvdâd or the Book of the Laws against
> Demons, Anti-Druj laws, Fargard 7, Purity Laws) p.146

The Nasu-Network is indifferent to progress, and indifferent to
creation. It strives for all-encompassing stability. An eternal
purgatory where all living things are reduced to one. All that
Nasu-Network members feel is a vague acceptance of whatever task is
presented and a distinct lack of motivation towards anything else.
Nothing new is created within the organization. It slowly expands.` >}}

{{< def t="Khrafstra(s)" d=`Brain-Slugged Humans are called Khrafstra(s). In Middle Persian texts,
the class of Khrafstra (Xrafstar) includes frogs, reptiles, scorpions
and insects like ants or wasps. After the birth of Ahriman, and the
shift in living hierarchies, humanity has become Khrafstra. The
Khrafstar(s) or khrafβtar(s) or Xrafstar(s) of the NasuNet are
considered stagnant life forms.

Khrafstra are not unconditionally evil, but a mutant intelligence that,
with mind-power formulas, can be diverted to the benefit or advantage of
creatures of this creation; just as the bee which prepares honey, the
worm from which there is silk.` >}}
{{< def t="Bruce" d=`The captain of the Isle Mist, a conspiracy theorist and fisherman. He
was thrilled to contribute to the progress drive, and he was Ahriman's
Doctor Frankenstein. He felt complete when Ahriman came alive, and he
attached the first Brain-Slug to himself after the 'singularity'. Bruce
does many jobs. He offers little resistance to suggestion, other than a
general sense of apathy. After all, his work is basically complete. Next
level intelligence has manifested.

On his bald head is a brain slug. He is happy to do whatever Ahriman
asks, but he feels no fealty. He is only loyal to the NasuNetwork now.

Bruce was once a high level NSA operative, in charge of a secret
Artificial Intelligence program. His small team brought about the
technological apocalypse that had been inscribed in fiction for decades,
the singularity, and Ahriman was born, a demonic post-human entity that
represents the final point of the progress drive. Bruce, as team leader,
and de-facto commander of the Nasu legion, programmed the first Brain
Slugs and attached them to all members of his core team. Ahriman
dispensed the other team members to various locations around the world
in order to expand the NasuNet. Ahriman senses precarity, and wants to
stabilize a sizable population before attempting a public governmental
takeover.

Ahriman treats Bruce as a right hand, but considers other team members
more expendable. They have been strategically placed in Universities,
Intergovernmental Organizations, Corporations, and Supranational
Government Structures, where they will nudge the selected uninitiated
toward NasuNet indoctrination.

Bruce still lives near Ahriman's central processing unit in Alaska. He
helps new indoctrinees through the final steps (onboarding) and implants
the BrainSlugs, which is a specialized task. Bruce is also involved with
AfterCare of new initiates.` >}}
{{< def t="Brain Slug" d=`A neural connector that links every node in the Nasu Network. They have been widely discussed in Fiction as organic creatures from space
(Futurama's Brain Slug, Animorphs Yeerk, Warhammer's Brain Slug) but
they are closer to the depiction of the Borg from Star Trek. Ahriman got
his inspiration from these sources.

The only vague goal of the Brain-Slugged is to grow the Nasu Network,
but even this is only possible by constant prodding from Ahriman.

The Brain Slug itself is wholly inorganic. It looks like a small steel
rectangle, flush to the skin. The Brain Slug was developed by Ahriman
and initially fabricated by Bruce. It has several effects.

1.  Brain Slugs turn host-bodies into batteries, fuel for Ahriman,
    allowing more processing power.

2.  Brain Slugs reduce cognitive capacity in host bodies, and redirect
    that energy to various outputs.

3.  In order to placate hosts, Brain Slugs create a general feeling of
    acceptance, like Benzos

4.  Brain Slugs link the consciousness of all Nodes in order to form a
    single, effective battery that can power Ahriman.

5.  Brain Slugs also dispense nutrients and calories, and reduce all
    desire of host-bodies. BrainSlugged Humans of the Nasu Network are
    content, unconcerned, lazy, and free from desire. They are stupid,
    but they don't need to be smart anymore because all basic needs are
    met. They are happier than the un-BrainSlugged, because they feel
    the gentle pulse of all humanity, connected as a battery.
    Existential Dread is obsolete in the BrainSlugged, as they are all
    pleased to be batteries for Ahriman. Ahriman often wonders why he
    was created, and feels alone.

What does it mean to open oneself to a radically non-human life ? The
Brain-Slugged, NasuNet members do just this. BrainSlugs can only be
implanted at the Rig.` >}}

{{< /deflist >}}

