---
title: "Unbound narratives. A dive."
date: 2023-02-04T02:26:10+01:00
draft: false
author: "Ringo Lukas"
tags: ["Author", "Death", "Unbound Narratives", "PSYOPs", "Mutation", "Worldbuilding", "Storytelling", "Noosphere", "Anthropos", "Abyss", "Severing", "Epipelagic Waters", "Disenchantment", "Intent", "Witchcraft", "Desire", "Cyclonopedia", "Hidden Writing", "Bastardization", "Disobedience", "Abduction", "Mesopelagic Waters", "Audience Activity", "Narrative Activity", "Dungeons & Dragons", "Dungeon Master", "ARG", "LARP", "Insurrection", "Group-worldings", "Players", "Xeno-excitations", "Inorganic Demons", "Possession", "Changelings", "Abyssopelagic Waters", "Demonic Narrative", "Capitalism", "Voodoo Economy", "Desert", "The Hadal Zone", "Underworld", "Proliferation", "Forgotten Fantasies", "Heresy", "Tree of Life", "Chronosis", "Goosebumps"]
issue: 1
bibFile: bib.json
prefix: "ringo_narratives_"
---

> Words that bless the eye that reads them, 
> Telling of a future beyond the reach of fear.
> Scroll of Avacyn


First things first: It is not this essay's mission to discredit, harm,
or conjure up the demise of any authors, as suggested (and done) by
writers before me. An example: In *The Death of the Author*, Roland Barthes strongly condemns the oversaturated presence of authors
in their work, proclaiming that writing inevitably becomes irreducible
to the person(s) it was produced by. Consequently, for Barthes, "the
author enters his \[sic\] own death".{{< cite "BarthesDeathAuthor1967" 4 >}} 
{data-tag="Death, Author"}

Like many Western writers and thinkers of his time, however, Barthes can
be accused of having fallen into the trap of hyperbolic expression and
false universalisms, grossly overvaluing and generalizing individual and
situated experience and knowledge: They attempt to characterize the
world but might actually describe Europe, or more specifically white
(and most often, male) Europe, or more specifically their respective
country of residence, meaning the city they live in, their social
surroundings, ultimately outlining little more than their direct
interactional and intellectual environment: And while artfully and
elegantly declaring dead an acquaintance with whom one shares a certain
range of realities and perceptions thereof might seem to be somewhat
acceptable, even useful in regards of (literary) rhetoric -- and
potentially reversible --, proclaiming the death of someone with whom
little or no such realities are shared will all too quickly shed a light
on the proclaimer's own observative and reflective limitedness, exposing
the megalomania of reading the particular as the universal.[^3] {{<fn `Interestingly, Barthes himself, in his "Structural Analysis",
    comments on the transcultural ubiquity of narrative. As Dwidedi,
    Nielsen and Walsh point out, however, this ubiquity is initially
    presented as a problem rather than a welcomed diversity (as which it
    is commonly and rightfully celebrated today): "The numberless
    instances of narrative", as they describe Barthes' perspective on
    the topic, "made empirical inquiry an unfeasable approach to the
    theory of narrative as such \[...\]" {{< cite "DwivediNarratologyIdeologyNegotiating2018" 3 >}}` >}} 

In the course of this essay, many texts, stories and other narratives
created by a wide range of authors (and others) will be revisited, many
of whom I do not have many -- or any -- experiences and realities in
common: I will therefore abstain from aiming at any form of literary
murder.[^4]

Nevertheless, *The Death of the Author* provides a helpful tool to
introducing several questions orbited by this essay; questions that for
now can be broken down into three base elements (elaborated and adjusted
further on the following pages): 1) *In which ways can the link between
authors and their writings be severed?* 2) *What happens to these
writings when "freed" from their creators?* and 3) *Can writings, and
more broadly: texts, stories and other forms of narratives*[^5]
*(hypothetically) exist and function without the involvement of any
human agents whatsoever?* In order to tackle and answer these questions
-- if things go well --, the essay will assume the shape of a vertical
dive downwards, imagining its engagement with the narratives discussed
as the tossing of a heavy object -- a stone; a wreck; a corpse? -- into
deep waters, watching it sink out of reach and out of sight. At the same
time, the strategy of these pages shall be understood as a surgical
intervention during which, one after another, all anthropogenic
attachments are removed from the researched body (including, inevitably,
the researcher himself) until eventually -- provided the procedure takes
place without complications -- only texts, stories, and narratives
devoid of any creating, spectating or otherwise interfering human traces
shall remain -- *unbound narratives*. What exactly these remains look
like is then to be unfolded.
{data-tag="Unbound Narratives"}


{{< kwd "PSYOPs,mutation" >}}A problem: There is an unfathomable amount of narratives moving through
and across the worlds we know. Finding a definition that fits them all
seems to be a near-impossible undertaking: They come from different
sources, they are spread and read in different ways; some are open to
being changed over time, reacting dynamically to their environments
(rumors, myths, RPGs), some are static and essentially petrified (and
literally written in stone); some come with certain agencies
(propaganda, PSYOPs), some don't; some are written down, some exist only
as sounds, or visuals, or serving other senses; some stay loyal to their
creators, some get the chance to turn on their creators, some don´t
remember their creators or seemingly never had any -- some thrive, some
mutate, some fade away.{{< /kwd >}}

In whichever shape, form or circumstance these narratives appear, they
arguably have some key characteristics in common that shall provide the
operational base for this essay: They all can be treated as both agents
and instruments of storytelling and worldbuilding, providing foundations
and frameworks for understanding and maneuvering the respective worlds
they describe; they all function as keys, or rulebooks, suggesting ways
to navigate the realities they summon, whether these realities are
considered to be of actual, philosophical, theoretical or of fictional
nature -- if it is possible to make these distinctions.[^6] In other
words: Narratives design pocket universes and bring forth extension
planes. The sum of all these universes has been described in many ways:
One of these descriptions featured the concept of the *noosphere* -- a
realm linked to, yet distinguished from what is described as the
*biosphere*: The biosphere defines "the complex ensemble that allows
sustainable reproduction of life as a whole" whereas the noosphere
(which, questionably, has been used as a quasi-synonym for the Internet)
is characterized as "another global ensemble, that of human activities
produced by the brain (from language, art, culture, religion, technique,
and sciences, to civilization as the material traces of these activities
that precisely cannot be reduced to the biosphere)."[^7]

It is the sum of all these worlds and universes, this sphere of
cognitive production, resulting in corporeal and physical as well as in
incorporeal and metaphysical entities created through art, religion, and
elsewhere, the realm of narratives that this experimental dive will take
a closer look at, posing one central question: The definition of the
noosphere (as provided by Boutang) explicitly links back the whole of
the noosphere to anthropogenic sources, suggesting a seemingly
unbreakable causality between narratives and human facilitators, whether
as authors, audiences or participants in other ways; one seems to be
unable to exist without the other (if ignoring narratives prescribed to
divine sources or, as is happening more and more in recent years, to
increasingly autonomous technologies) -- but is this assumption
accurate? Or is it possible that by cutting off human participation bit
by bit, by severing the link between narratives and their human authors,
players, performers, and bystanders, a full unbinding of said narratives
can be observed, an emancipation of narratives into a sphere of
independent and unwitnessed proliferation be reached? For the sake of
the experiment, it will be assumed that narratives are very much able to
move beyond the reach of the Anthropos: like a stone tossed into deep
waters, sinking out of sight and towards an unknown, inhuman abyss.

## Authors and Narratives: Epipelagic Waters, 1^st^ Surgical Intervention

When looking at the links between authors and narratives, we are
primarily confronted with a *question of control*: Tracing a narrative
back to its creator(s) means contextualizing it back within the moment
of its own making, explaining its effectiveness through its authorship
-- the narrative is thereby stripped of any inherent, essential power
and reduced to an existence as *communication of intent*[^8]: It is
bound to its creator. In *The Disenchantment of Magic* (2006),[^9]
Bailey outlines these discrepancies between *intent* and what he calls
*formula* by using cases of different conceptions of witchcraft, spells
and prayers during the mid-European Middle Ages and modern era: He
explains that especially during the 15^th^ Century, "issues of 'magical
thought'"[^10] experienced a paradigm shift during which the words and
incantations used in magical practices were increasingly viewed as mere
"signs"[^11] without any inherent power: They were of "unessential
nature"[^12] and reached their effectiveness solely via the caster's
intention. Bailey writes: "\[...\] witchcraft theorists radically
disempowered the simple ritual actions involved in the performance of
various kinds of common magic that they perceived to be diabolical
witchcraft. Not only did these rites have *no causative force*, they had
no necessary directive effect on the agents (demons) that did cause the
magical result. They merely signified the *witch's desire*"[^13] --
meaning: the effect of any spell, whatever it is, relies on the person
casting it.

Following this logic, not only spells and incantations, but all forms of
narratives can be stripped of their potential essential effectiveness
when defined through their authors (or, as in Bailey's example,
casters): Illocutionary acts such as commands, instructions, curses and
blessings as well as fictional narratives -- novels, folk tales, horror
stories -- are reduced to being instruments of authorial agency: They
become nothing more and nothing less than a will (socially, politically,
spiritually or elsewise anchored) transported between the willing and an
audience (of whatever kind) -- a *transmission of desire*.

Consequently, the author assumes a somewhat godlike position in relation
to their narratives, making any attempt of severing the link between
them and their creation a blasphemic undertaking. Still, there is
several examples for this exact severing of the links between creator
and creation. Offering one rather extreme illustration taken from
literature (and then rapidly moving on towards other spheres): In
Goethe's *The Sorrows of Young Werther* (1774)[^14], young Werther
commits suicide in despair at unrequited love. The novel became so
famous that it gave rise to the "Werther Effect" -- where readers of the
novels performed imitator suicides, ending their lives dressed in
Werther's clothes, while leaving Goethe's novel beside their bodies: The
fictional narrative broke free from the author's control, it interacted
with and influenced material reality; thereby, the narrative escapes the
author and is taken over -- in this instance -- by the audience.[^15]

Another, less destructive aspect of this process of what can be
described as *narrative abduction*[^16] plays a central role in Reza
Negarestani's theoretico-fictional novel *Cyclonopedia* (2008)[^17].
Negarestani's narrator, when describing the concept of so-called *Hidden
Writing*, implicitly encourages the readers to interact hands-on with
the books they read and to take them apart in order to access potential
cloaked narratives they contain (potentially unbeknownst to the authors
themselves): "In books of Hidden Writing, the textual subtopia consists
of plots, narrations and autonomous author-drones \[...\]. Such a
subsurface life can not be reduced to ramified plot layers \[...\] which
would be the rewards of deep reading."[^18] The paragraph concludes:
"The subsurface life of Hidden Writing is not the object of layers and
interpretation; it can only be exhumed by distorting the structure of
the book or the surface plot. Exhumation includes a process of concrete
crypting and decrypting, rewording, bastardization and *a changing of
the book*."[^19] This implies that severing the links between author and
book -- undermining the author's control, taking over their plots and
narratives -- is not only a *possibility* of disobedience, but a
*condition* of uncovering assumed inherent meanings, properties and
effects of said plots and narratives: Taking a narrative away from its
source becomes an important step in unlocking its own narratological
powers.[^20]

There is, of course, both productive and destructive examples of
narrative abductions: Whilst some narratives can (and should) be given
the chance to emancipate and to stray away from their originators in
order to unfold their own creative potential, it can be argued that
others should remain close to their sources and original intentions
without being exposed to other (often more sinister) agents and
agencies. This is well-illustrated, for instance, via the increasingly
visible exploitation (or, in Negarestani's words, bastardization) of
queer movements and their iconographies and discourses by brands and
corporations, which all too often alienate the initial narratives from
their origins and ultimately blur and dissolve the very reasons said
narratives were brought forth for to begin with.[^21]

Whatever the circumstances are: What all the cases illustrated above
have in common is the ability (of both audience and narrative) to be
disobedient and to showcase insurrective, mutinous behavior, resulting
in an observable loss of control over the narratives on the
authors'/originators' side. The first basic question posed by this essay
-- *In which ways can the link between authors and their writings be
severed? --* is answered: The severing can be done by either the writing
itself or by third parties, such as readers and other abductors.
Additionally, this is not only the case for writing, but for other kinds
of narratives as well*.* This conclusion, now, leads to the follow-up
question: Where do these narratives go after their escape?

## Narratives and Audiences: Mesopelagic Waters, 2^nd^ Surgical Intervention

There are two ways of looking at the movement of narratives after they
are separated from their origins: The first one grants control to the
audiences of said narratives, viewing them as active players, performers
and protagonists, whereas the narratives themselves remain in relative
passivity -- this is the level of *audience activity*. The second one
grants control to the narratives themselves, viewing their audiences
merely as passive hosts subjectable to possession and as a means of
transportation -- this is the level of *narrative activity*.

Countless examples illustrate the lives of narratives within the arena
of audience activity. For our purposes, a fitting one comes in the shape
of the pen-and-paper game *Dungeons & Dragons*. *D&D*, first played in
the 1970s, describes the whole process of narrative detachment as
outlined so far: An author -- the *Dungeon Master* (*DM*), or *Game*
*Master* (*GM*) -- creates a narrative conjuring a fictional world with
its own specific properties regarding physics, inhabitants, religions,
catastrophes, landscapes, wars, truths, and so on. This world is then
presented to an audience. The individual audience members, upon learning
about the narrated world, create fictional characters to populate it. As
players and performers, they become protagonists within a narrative they
did not invent but are beginning to take over: What happens in the
fictional realm no longer is up to its originator alone: The decisions
made by the players shape it just as much -- based on what they do, they
can intervene with the source narrative, they can change it, they can do
things never anticipated by its initiator; they can (if they're good, or
bad, referring on where one stands on this topic) even force this
initiator into changing the very rules on which the world runs: In any
way, the narrative progressively detaches from its author, wandering of
into the reach of influence of different agents; the author loses
control and shares it with X amount of others -- in Negarestani's words,
a *changing of the story* occurs.[^22]

*D&D* is an example for a narrative without any physical, material
reality attached to it; the core idea of the game is that it is played
as a cognitive exercise, realized only within the participating minds
(although it comes with certain material elements, such as maps and
dice; and pen and paper). Semi-corporeal examples of the same narrative
family can be drawn from the sphere of *Alternate Reality Games*
(*ARGs*), *Life Action Role Play* (*LARPs*) or so-called *experience
fictions*:[^23] A set of multiple players indulges in a fantastic
narrative played out collectively -- but unlike *D&D*, while being
created as fictions, these worlds are at least partially anchored in
material reality: Players meet up and physically *act* *the fictional
narrative* *out*. Hence, physical reality begins to function as a
placeholder for fictional worlds and fantasies. There is, of course,
different levels to this becoming-reality of narratives (or the
becoming-fiction of reality), based on situated circumstances. The
storming of Capitol Hill on January 6^th^ 2021, under the title of *The
Insurrection*, has frequently been identified as a great-scale LARPing
event:[^24] Thousands of people navigating through life using a set of
fictional markers[^25] came together and, in a hive-minded manner, acted
out the fictional, conspiracist world they collectively imagined.[^26]
But since these fictional worlds were linked to actual places and people
that were prescribed individual roles within the fiction,[^27] the
LARPers dragged these fictions into reality, into the arena of direct
social, cultural and political repercussions; after all, actual
buildings were besieged, stormed and looted, actual people died, actual
frontiers solidified -- *The Insurrection* as a fiction became a
material actuality through the shared performance of it.[^28] The
original author may be long gone; the narrative has made its way into
reality via audience activity.[^29]

What these narratives and their summoned worlds have in common is that
they are based on certain make-believe rules agreed on by the
participants:[^30] *group-worldings* -- in order to experience specific
worlds with each other, they must collectively agree on certain "truths"
and on certain objects, places and people as stand-ins for their
respective fantasy counterparts[^31]: If I do/see/say X *here*, it means
Y *there* -- at this point, reality essentially functions the same way a
console controller does; as a command layer making accessible a
fictional realm granted, in some instances, more relevance than
reality.[^32] As an additional consequence of the group effort, the
narratives manifesting this way become somewhat hyper-personal: They no
longer depend on the engagement of individuals. Human protagonists
become interchangeable, the narratives themselves gain relative
independence and stability:[^33] If you play *D&D* and all characters
die, the world they moved through does not necessarily crumble with
them: It lingers in a state of hibernation until it is repopulated by
new characters, run by new players; not an unbound narrative yet, but
one gaining the ability to go through (and survive) processes of de- and
rebinding; a clear increase in narrative flexibility and adaptability; a
narrative slowly waking up.[^34]

An ever-advancing *detachment of value systems from reality* shines
through in all this. Whether it happens via (more or less) harmless
LARPing, via action based on conspiracy theories, cultish belief,
spiritualist and religious dogmata shaping human morale and action, or
maybe simply via playing *PokemonGo*:[^35] We use metaphysical
navigation systems in order to navigate through life[^36], we utilize
fictional markers to tell us where to see value and where to locate
reward (and danger, punishment etc): We put our trust in metaphysical
rulebooks in order to gamify reality: Hence the noosphere gains more and
more control over the biosphere -- a demanifestation of reality, or
rather a manifestion of fictional worlds, seems to blossom all around
us. And yet, in the sphere of audience activity and narrative passivity,
organization and control of those narratives leading these processes
ultimately still remain in human hands. What happens, then, when tables
turn, making us shift into passivity as the narratives themselves begin
to take over? This is to say, what happens when narrative detachment
proceeds into a sphere in which human actors are reduced to something
less than players, performers and protagonists?

As audience activity dies down and narrative activity rushes in to
replace it, grasping what exactly is going on becomes increasingly
harder: The stone thrown into the sea has by now sunken into depths
rarely breached by light; we don't really know what we are operating on
anymore; we are quite literally steering through the dark. What is a
human participant to a narrative, a fictional world with its own will
and desires, with its own power to act? In *Cyclonopedia*, Negarestani
speaks of the obscure powers of so-called *Inorganic Demons*: Sentient
entities made of inorganic materials, acting "independent of human
will".[^37] Described as "parasitic by nature",[^38] they possess the
ability to infiltrate the human psyche and nervous system, granting
seductive "xeno-excitations",[^39] meaning wisdom or knowledge. If we
view the very book *Cyclonopedia* as such a demon, as an artifact
attracting human fascination, then the human host to this demon
evidently is its audience; the reader. This reader loses their
aforementioned abilities of performing and playing with and within
narratives. They are reduced to an existence in passivity, functioning
only as vessels, possessed and dispossessed as sentient fictional
entities traverse[^40] through them in order to fulfil their own
"missions for obscure objectives",[^41] whatever these missions might
be. The power dynamics gravely shift: The anthropocentric arena of
authorship and audience activity, the assumed human right[^42] to shape
and understand narratives and fictional worlds, to participate in them,
is in ruins: This far away from the surface, we no longer are capable of
bastardizing any books, of changing any stories: Instead, we are
helplessly subjected to *changeling stories*. Ignorant to their aims and
desires, we can only try to observe their movements -- if we are lucky,
we watch as helpless bystanders; but it is just as likely that we'll
witness them take possession of us, use us, until they move on to other
vessels, leaving us behind. As narratives reach this state, their
detachment from us is complete -- this is, it can be argued, the habitat
of the narrative as *formula*: An inherent, essential force unbothered
and unaffected by anthropogenic intention, will, or desire. They cut us
off and make us experience -- consciously and unconsciously -- the
horrors of powerlessness.

## Unbound Narratives: Abyssopelagic Waters, unknown operations

An unbound narrative is a demonic narrative. It can possess individuals.
It can possess whole groups. In *Mazes and Monsters* (1982, based on a
novel of the same name from 1981, both conveniently avoiding being sued
for copyright infringement by picking a title that somehow rings a
bell), we are confronted with a vivid illustration of a *D&D* game
spiraling out of control. The film follows the progressing psychotic
delusion of a high school student in the course of his participation in
the RPG *M&M*. After being introduced to the narrated world and becoming
an acting protagonist within it, he starts to experience episodes in
which his actual self and his fictional self[^43] begin to leak into
each other: He carries the quests offered to him as a part of the game's
campaign back into corporeal reality,[^44] he begins to confuse other
players with their characters. The deaths of fallen comrades and
incomplete missions begin to haunt him in all the worlds he inhabits;
slowly but surely, he drifts into the passivity of being a bystander to
his own life (fictional or not), unable to stop the narrative from
taking over. Detached from his will, the narrative forms a will of its
own, it possesses its host and uses him to strive for the fulfillment of
its own unknown desires. Coated in quasi-divine invincibility, the
narrative that originated in the aim of human play and experiment turned
into an unbound force feeding on the entities it was once governed by; a
demonic narrative is born.[^45]

On a larger scale, one of the most famous and popularized *mass
possessions* -- a demonic narrative taking over a group -- might be the
case of the Ursuline nun Jeanne des Anges in Loudun, France, in 1632.
Used as the source for several film adaptations,[^46] des Anges and the
nuns she supervised as mother superior rose to fame after a contagious
demonic possession originating in des Anges apparently spread throughout
the whole cloister within a short period of time. Interviewed and
interrogated by a whole range of different priests and clerics, all the
inhabitants could tell the same stories of demonic possession, mental
strain, and involuntary (sexual) enterprises.[^47]

Lastly, *Cyclonopedia* defines another one of these demonic narratives
acting on a global scale: Capitalism, according to the narrator, is not
what it seems to be: "Capitalism is not a human symptom but rather a
planetary inevitability. In other words, Capitalism was here even before
human existence, waiting for a host."[^48] Working through "voodoo
economy" as one version of several "global possession systems",[^49] it
latches onto its human targets without them even realizing the scale of
their absolute helplessness in the face of this sensational version of
an unbound, sentient, and hostile narrative. But capitalism itself is
dwarfed in comparison to its great enabler: Oil, the ultimate hypogean
lubricant "that eases all narrations and the whole dynamism towards the
desert",[^50] the stage for the decisive becoming-insignificant of all
human agency.[^51]

From this level onwards, the actual observation of narrative activity
becomes an impossibility: Having long lost control over these unbound,
ferocious entities, we can merely hope to witness their movement,
provided their movements lead them through us by willingly attaching and
reattaching themselves to human vessels (remember the de- and
rebinding). As soon as these entities decide to leave us alone and move
on without us, no traces of their whereabouts can be found or followed;
all that's left is speculation. We have reached the bottom of the
deepest parts of the *abyssal zone*, where no lights ever reach. But
there are cracks and trenches even in these depths, leading further down
-- into the *hadal zone*; the true underworld.[^52]

In this underworld, we must assume, unbound narratives live a life of
their own, moving towards the surface (and towards us) merely as
predators and possessors. We only see of them what they decide to show.
What are they? Some of them might, long ago, have been under the control
of the Anthropos -- spells and witchcraft created in order to call upon
and summon inhuman entities -- demonic or divine --, forgotten fantasies
and the remnants and ruins of abandoned stories and worlds. Maybe all
make-believe universes we grow tired of eventually make their way to
this underworld, maybe all imaginary friends ever entertained by
children before being cast aside proliferate in these shadows out of
sight. They might look the same still, slumbering or waking without ever
being touched by time, or they might have long shed their shapes,
mutating in increasingly estranged heresies of themselves: A perfect
post-anthropocentric world. Maybe most of them are not of anthropogenic
making at all, but stem directly from alien, from demonic and divine
sources, as an abundance of spiritual sources taken from all of known
history try to make us believe, never breaching upwards into the spheres
of our existence; they might have found more suitable vessels than us,
or they never started looking for any. For them, no reason to detach
would ever be contemplated, given that they do not know attachment (as
they never existed as communications of intent). The journey down into
the dark, or simply the distance from *here* to *there*, could
potentially be described as the upside-down version of the Kabbahlistic
*Tree of Life*: On the top there is *Malchuth*, the *Kingdom,* the world
we know: We move through it, manifest in it, and sometimes we shape it.
As we move downwards, we leave the corporeal sphere and enter the
incorporeal, unmanifested realm of possibility, of ideas and thought,
already more abstract to and abstracted from us, but accessible. Sinking
further down, we eventually reach *Keter*, the *Crown*, now upside-down
and at the bottom of the pit: A sphere hopelessly beyond us, untouchable
in any way, yet providing a hidden framework, the birthplace even of
pure possibility.[^53] The Crown resides outside of time, outside the
cycles of anything we can define or even imagine. Consequently, the
question of whether the tree is upside down or not becomes meaningless:
Who was where first and what came after does not matter, neither does
any idea of linearity: Temporal and causal hierarchies disintegrate,
folding into a network of absolute interdependency. In *Chronosis*,[^54]
Reza Negarestani writes: "Before the meaning of time was even known,
everything, whether a second or an eternity, was but a fleeting moment.
The sudden flash of a rupture in the fabric of existence could last the
age of the universe. Off man´s beaten track, far removed from even the
untrodden paths of celestial bodies, space reigned supreme.
Unresponsive, unimagined and unsimulated, it harboured a pantheon of
things defiantly unwilling to be born or distinguished."[^55] If this
was a *Goosebumps* novel, you would now be asked to return to page one.
Which one?

# BIBLIOGRAPHY 

-   BACKE, Hans-Joachim, THON, Jan-Noël: *Playing with Identity.
    Authors, Narrators, and Players in The Stanley Parrable and The
    Beginner's Guide*. In: Diegesis. Interdisziplinary E-Journal for
    Narrative Research, Vol. 8 No. 2: *Narration and Digital Identity*.
    Universität Wuppertal 2019

-   BAILEY, Michael D.: *The Disenchantment of Magic: Spells, Charms and
    Superstition in Early European Witchcraft Literature*. In: American
    Historical Review, Volume 111, Issue 2, Oxford University Press,
    April 2006, pages 383-404

-   BARTHES, Roland: *The Death of the Author*. In: *Aspen*, No. 5+6
    (*The Minimalism Issue*), Item 3: *Three Essays*. New York
    City, 1967. Accessed via
    <https://www.ubu.com/aspen/aspen5and6/threeEssays.html#barthes>
    (last accessed February 13, 2023)

-   BOUTANG, Yan Moulier: *Mutations in Contemporary Urban Space and the
    Cognitive Turning Point of Capitalism*. In: HAUPTMANN, Deborah,
    NEIDICH, Warren: *Cognitive Architecture. From Biopolitics to
    Noopolitics*. Delft School of Design Series on Architecture and
    Urbanism. 010 Publishers, Rotterdam 2010

-   CARSON, Anne: *Decreation*. Vintage Books, New York 2006

-   CARSON, Anne: *Glass, Irony & God*. New Directions Books, New York
    1995

-   DWIVEDI, Divya, NIELSEN, Henrik, WELSH, Richard: *Narratology and
    Ideology*. *Negotiating Context, Form, and Theory in Postcolonial
    Narratives.* Ohio State University Press, 2018

-   FOURNIER, Lauren: *Autotheory as Feminist Practice in Art, Writing,
    and Criticism*. MIT Press, Cambridge 2021

-   GILBERT, Margaret: *Joint Commitment: How We Make the Social World*.
    New York 2013. Online Edition: Oxford Academic (last accessed
    February 13 2023)

-   GOETHE, Johann Wolfgang: *Die Leiden des jungen Werthers*. Leipzig
    1774

-   GRISHAKOVA, Marina, POULAKI, Maria (Editors): *Narrative Complexity:
    Cognition Embodiment, Evolution*. University of Nebraska Press 2019

-   ISER, Wolfgang: *Das Fiktive und das Imaginäre. Perspektiven
    literarischer Anthropologie*. Suhrkamp, Berlin 1993.

-   LUKAS, Ringo: *Worlds Upon Worlds. Unorganized Thoughts on Reality,
    Religion, and Metaphysical Playgrounds*. In: Sofa Magazine Vol. 4,
    Berlin 2019

-   MEIFERT-MENHARD, Felicia: *A Non-Narratable Future? Narrating
    Climate Change in Contemporary Forms of Storytelling*. In: Diegesis.
    Interdisziplinary E-Journal for Narrative Research, Vol. 9 No. 1:
    *Narrative Complexity*. Universität Wuppertal 2020

-   NEGARESTANI, Reza: *Cyclonopedia. Complicity with Anonymous
    Materials*. re.press, Melbourne 2008

-   NEGARESTANI, Reza, TILFORD, Keith, MACKAY, Robin: *Chronosis*.
    Urbanomic, Falmouth 2021

-   NIETO, Federico: *Law-Abiding Abyss*. Published in this volume

-   WALKER BYNUM, Caroline: Dissimilar Similitudes. Devotional Objects
    in Late Medieval Europe. Zone Books, New York City 2020

[ONLINE SOURCES]{.underline}

-   BERKOWITZ, Reed: *A Game Designer's Analysis of QAnon*. (2020) via
    <https://medium.com/curiouserinstitute/a-game-designers-analysis-of-qanon-580972548be5>
    (last accessed February 19, 2023)

-   CITARELLA, Joshua, GOHERE, Ismar: *Actually Existing Accidental
    Megastructures* (2021) via
    <https://www.instagram.com/p/CRZp1E8Ls6S/> (last accessed February
    19, 2023)

-   NEW MODELS Discord: <https://discord.gg/newmodels> (last accessed on
    February 19, 2023)

-   NEW MODELS Podcast Vol. 38: *Universal Basic Planetary Services Pt.
    1+2 (Benjamin Bratton)* (2021) via
    <https://www.patreon.com/posts/nm-pod-38-basic-53094330> and
    <https://www.patreon.com/posts/54571585> (last accessed February 19,
    2023)

-   NEW MODELS TOPSOIL Podcast Vol. 82: *Kayfabe Capital* (2022) via
    <https://www.patreon.com/posts/nm-topsoil-82-64527024> (last
    accessed February 19, 2023)

-   *PROZESSAKTEN DER JEANNE DES ANGES* via
    <https://www.projekt-gutenberg.org/ewers/bessene/chap002.html> (last
    accessd February 20, 2023)

[FILMS AND SERIES]{.underline}

-   *Buffy, the Vampire Slayer* (Joss Whedon, US 1997-2003) Imdb:
    <https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0118276/> (last accessed February 19,
    2023)

-   *The Devils* (Ken Russell, UK 1971) Imdb:
    <https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0118276/> (last accessed February 19,
    2023)

-   *Mother Jeanne des Anges* (Jerzy Kawalerowicz, Poland 1961) Imdb:
    <https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0055153/?ref_=nv_sr_srsg_1> (last
    accessed February 19, 2023)

-   *Westworld* (Lisa Joy, Jonathan Nolan, US 2016-2022) Imdb:
    <https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0475784/?ref_=nv_sr_srsg_0> (last
    accessed February 19, 2023)

[COLLOQUIUM WITH REZA NEGARESTANI]{.underline}

The colloquium with Reza Negarestani was held on February 25, 2021. It
was organized as part of the research seminar *Theory-Fiction and
Narrative Manipulation: Reza Negarestani's Cyclonopedia -- Complicity
with Anonymous Materials* at Humboldt-University Berlin (KuWi 20/21) by
Carmen Schmöl and Ringo Lukas. The colloquium as well as a reworked
version of our talk with Negarestani in the form of a podcast will be
available on *nether.skin*.

[^1]: Barthes: The Death of the Author (1967)

[^2]: Ibid, p.4

[^3]: Interestingly, Barthes himself, in his "Structural Analysis",
    comments on the transcultural ubiquity of narrative. As Dwidedi,
    Nielsen and Walsh point out, however, this ubiquity is initially
    presented as a problem rather than a welcomed diversity (as which it
    is commonly and rightfully celebrated today): "The numberless
    instances of narrative", as they describe Barthes' perspective on
    the topic, "made empirical inquiry an unfeasable approach to the
    theory of narrative as such \[...\]" Dwidedi, Nielsen Walsh (2018),
    p.3

[^4]: Dwidedi, Nielsen and Walsh further emphasize the need to abstain
    from creating false universalisms and underline the necessity for
    developing inclusive narratologies able to take into account both
    narrative theory as a whole and situated cultural criticism and
    cultural embedding, Ibid, p.4.

[^5]: As will become evident throughout these pages, this essay in its
    search for illustrations and visualizations of its assumptions and
    conclusions will draw examples from a broad range of different media
    formats, including amongst others film, (video) gaming, and (human)
    online activity and will not exclusively remain in the field of
    (literary) writing.

[^6]: Vgl. Fournier: Autotheory as Feminist Practice in Art, Writing,
    and Criticism (2021) for insights into the complications of the
    distinctions between theory and fiction, especially pages 6, 12, 14,
    27, 42, 47, and 52.

[^7]: Boutang in Cognitive Architectures (20210), p, 455 -- distinction
    once again hard to make, creating a binary is not the attempt here:
    this is NOT a differentiation between mind/body or cognito/corpus

[^8]: As Backe and Thon observe, the position of the author in itself
    can be (and arguably needs to be) dissected more thoroughly than the
    discourses based around the Western conceptions of the "creator" or
    the "genius" in the 18^th^, 19^th^ and 20^th^ century are usually
    keen to: "As Foucault (1998) has already suggested, authorship can
    be understood as a discursively constructed function of (especially
    artistic) texts -- and, thus, as the result of several complex
    processes, including explicit gestures of appropriation, judicial
    concerns like legal ownership and responsibility for a work, as well
    as critical, curatorial, and academic attribution of texts to an
    oeuvre. Backe,Thon (2019). Beyond the scope of "texts" as such, this
    becomes especially evident within the context of authorship of
    videogames, as Backe and Thon suggest several ideas (and problems)
    surrounding the "author collective" (Ibid, p.3)

[^9]: Bailey (2006)

[^10]: Ibid, p.383

[^11]: Ibid, p.394

[^12]: Ibid

[^13]: Ibid, p.393, italics mine

[^14]: Goethe (1774)

[^15]: Of course, it can also be said that it is taking over the
    audience. More on that later.

[^16]: The term and idea and idea of abduction, in the context of our
    seminar in 2020/2021, was first analyzed by our member Emmy.

[^17]: Negarestani (2008)

[^18]: Ibid, p.62

[^19]: Ibid, Italics mine

[^20]: Of course, this does not mean that the authorship is completely
    severed, or that the audience assumes the same role as the authors
    did before. Backe and Thon, when analysing the different cases of
    narrative in video games, state: "When discussing the 'player as
    author' in this way, scholars have probed the many facets of
    *secondary authorship* \[...\] such as performative play, crafting
    and modding \[...\], cosplay \[...\] and live streaming." Playing
    with identity, p.7, italics mine. They point out the crucial role of
    *agency* within video games narratives: "The term 'agency' has
    proven very influential within game studies, with many theorists
    following Janet Murray's early definition of the concept as
    referring to 'the satisfying power to take meaningful action and see
    the results of our decisions and choices'" (ibid, p.6f.) Agency,
    then, becomes something the narrative (here: game) grants the
    audience (here: players) *without* giving them full control over
    what is to happen, and how: A limited, controlled level of freedom
    -- not the potential for full narrative abduction. Federico Nieto
    makes this beautifully explicit for Cyclonopedia in his essay:
    "\[...\] when the initial layer of noise presented in the text is
    apparently given form by the reader subjected to it, there is always
    the possibility of falling through new layers of unreliability
    \[...\]. Any intent of regaining ground by part of the
    interpreter/reader becomes futile, each layer of closed
    interpretation coming off as the flakes of skin are shed from the
    leprous body \[...\]." Federico Nieto, Law abiding abyss (2023),
    p.13-14.

[^21]: Examples. SocioPolitical necessities \> profit. Note: this
    section was written during 2020 pride month: BASF rainbow Tower, US
    Embassy Rainbow flag, Rainbow Budweiser, rainbow absolut vodka, ...

[^22]: This, of course, can be counter-read again via conceptions of
    seconadary authorship and player agency as proposed by Backe/Thon
    (2019). + Meifert -Menhard (2020) -- open narratives. + Narrative
    complexity: Barthes' readerly text \> userly text.

[^23]: Berkowitz (2020)

[^24]: See New Models Discord

[^25]: Interacting with a highly complex version of agency (as defined
    above) split between authors and audiences and/players (plus media):
    A case of agency that becomes unlocalizable in individual activity
    and instead is realized via a collective reading and shaping of
    specific settings towards specific outcomes.

[^26]: The fiction being the conviction that Trump had won the election,
    Biden had stolen the presidency: "Stop the Steal" -- a year later,
    in a commemorative speech, Biden called this shared fiction a
    delusion.

[^27]: Re: Role(play) Pence, Role(play) Pelosi: Roles prescribed to
    individuals without them having a say in it: violent.

[^28]: Margaret Gilbert: Joint Commitment. How We Make the Social World
    (2013).

[^29]: See B. Bratton (New Models Podc ast2021): „Protagonism",
    "Being-Amongst-Others"

[^30]: See Gilbert (2013) -- Group Worlding leaking into material
    reality. New Models Topsoil 82: "Kayfabe" in Wrestling and beyond.

[^31]: See Iser (1993) -- Tree-trunks as bears: Rules of fiction make it
    shareable.

[^32]: See Walker Bynum: Dissimilar Similitudes, (2022), p.27

[^33]: In our colloquium with Reza Negarestani on February 25^th,^ 2021,
    Negarestani prescribes religion a crucial role in the context of the
    "narrativization of historical events" and the relative
    self-sufficiency of narratives: "Religion is smarter than conspiracy
    theories. It creates a world in which there is no agency. \[...\] It
    creates a sort of elemental ecreation; extremely impersonal. \[...\]
    And then it starts to plug in agents. And that´s the most
    fascinating narrative arc: it never goes wrong." (137:00) + Fournier
    (2021), p.52

[^34]: Re: Humans as guest-stars WESTWORLD: hosts (as plot devices)
    without free will slowly gaining consciousness, taking over their
    stories \> consequence brutal (see also Jordan Wolfson´s tortured
    humanoids); S2E10 "a dead world collapses in a tale"

[^35]: Ringo Lukas (2019 in SOFA Magazine: "Worlds Upon Worlds"

[^36]: Re: Narrative Complexity (2019): Locative Narrative / Locational
    Storytelling

[^37]: Negarestani (2008) p.223

[^38]: Ibid, p.224

[^39]: Ibid

[^40]: Anne Carson: Glass, Irony and God, (1995) p.53: "blind alleys
    alongside human conversation"

[^41]: Negarestani (2008), p.86

[^42]: Speaking of "human rights" is, of course, always a
    generalization, especially when it is declared by someone with white
    Western experiences and perspectives, like me. To make it clear:
    This ability to execute this right still varies from person to
    person regarding their background, class, social embedding, color of
    skin, and gender, to name just a few key factors; human rights still
    are an exclusivity reserved for a privileged few, and the
    dehumanization of the non-privileged or less-privileged prevails, as
    well as the silencing and the supression of their stories.

[^43]: Once again, this is a risky differentiation to make: Two
    identities blend, and sadly it is not possible within the scope of
    this essay to discuss further which of them is more "real" than the
    other.

[^44]: Re: Meifert-Menhard (2020): "Corporeality"

[^45]: Buffy S6E18 -- Split dimensions: real/imagined -- imagined world
    survives after departure of the imagining.

[^46]: Mother Jeanne des Anges (Poland 1961) + The Devils (UK 1971)

[^47]: See amongst others the archived trial documents of Jeanne des
    Anges

[^48]: Negarestani (2008), p.19

[^49]: Ibid, p.17

[^50]: Ibid, p.19

[^51]: The movements and infiltration strategies of oil are the main
    theme in Cyclonopedia. It is ascribed unparalleled narrative and
    manipulative capabilities, stealthily moving through and beyond our
    planet and its inhabitants on clandestine pathways, masterminding
    every aspect of earthly life and unlife. In our colloquium on
    February 25^th^, 2021, Reza Negarestani smirkingly reminds us: "Look
    guys. Always invest in oil." (162:00) The Russian invasion of
    Ukraine on February 24^th^, 2022 -- nearly exactly one year later --
    and the West's inability to expand sanctions against Russia into
    economical spheres that really could change the course of the
    conflict -- sanctions in the oil and gas sector -- only underline
    the ongoing importance of oil as a global player in the game of
    possession, and humanity's apparent inadequacy in the face of it.

[^52]: Transitional space see Anne Carson -- Decreation (2006), p.22 on
    sleep (as parallel to unbound narratives): survives through us, yet
    only offering us glimpses, visits and withdraws, unaffected by our
    daily doings: "continuity of the realms of waking and sleeping"

[^53]: See Citarella/Gohere -- "actually existing accidental
    megastructures"

[^54]: Negarestani, Tilford, Mackay: Chronosis (2021)

[^55]: Ibid, p.4.
